Every company follows a different coding standard based on their best practices. Coding standard is required because there may be several developers working on different modules so if they will start inventing their own standards then source codes becomes very un-manageable difficult to maintain.

This file lists several standards that any programmer, adding or changing code should follow.
 

PHP General Coding Standards​
Document your code in source files and the manual.
Never use C++ style comments (i.e. // comment).  Always use C-style comments instead.
PHP code MUST use the long <?php ?> tags. Do NOT use any other tag formats
PHP code MUST use only UTF-8.
NEVER hardcode path or drive name in code. Get the application path programmatically and use relative path.
NEVER assume that your code will ALWAYS run from drive C:
Show short and friendly error messages to the user BUT log the actual error with all possible information. This will help a lot in debugging issues.
Files SHOULD either declare symbols (classes, functions, constants, etc.) or cause side-effects (e.g. generate output, change .ini settings, etc.)  but SHOULD NOT do both.
Class names MUST be declared in StudlyCaps. [StudlyCaps, also known as PascalCase, implies that the first letter of each subword is capitalized.]
Method names MUST be declared in camelCase [ camelCase implies, like a camel, that the humps are in the middle, therefore the first letter is not capitalized]
Class constants MUST be declared in all upper case with underscore separators. Also, Classes should be given descriptive names. Avoid using abbreviations where possible.
Variable names should be in lowercase.  Use underscores to separate between words.
Do NOT use strncat().  If you're absolutely sure you know what you're doing, and only then, consider using it, and even then, try avoiding it.
Do not define functions that are not available.  For instance, if a library is missing a function, do not define the PHP version of the function, and do not raise a run-time error about the function not existing.  End users should use function_exists() to test for the existence of a function.
Be generous with whitespace and braces.  Keep one empty line between the variable declaration section and the statements in a block, as well as between logical statement groups in a block.  Maintain at least one empty line between two functions, preferably two.
When indenting, use the tab character.  A tab is expected to represent four spaces.  It is important to maintain consistency in indenture so that definitions, comments, and control structures line up correctly.
Preprocessor statements (#if and such) MUST start at column one. To indent preprocessor directives you should put the # at the beginning of a line, followed by any number of whitespace.
For sending emails through code, always prefer to use SMTP. Make sure that mail headers are properly defined to avoid any spamming.
Before using any pre-define php function, make sure that function is NOT deprecated in the recent php version.
PHP supports one error control operator: the at sign (@). When prepended to an expression in PHP, any error messages that might be generated by that expression will be ignored. [Don't use @ operator. It is bad practice to suppress errors this way, always check for the conditions that may cause the error, imho it's always better to handle all possible conditions rather than letting code run with errors or with suppressing errors this way .]












General HTML Coding Standards​
Always Declare a Doctype
Always set viewport through meta tags eg : “<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=no" />”
Use lower case file names.
Use Meaningful Title Tags
Always use lower case letters for HTML tagslike this : “<span>hello world</span>”  and not like this :  “<SPAN>hello world</SPAN>”
Use lower case attribute names like this : “<span class=”myClass”>hello world</span>”
Use Descriptive Meta Tags (Don’t try to spam your description with repeated words and phrases because search engines are intelligent enough to detect that.)
Use Divs to Divide Your Layout into Major Sections
Use HTML grid to create webpage layouts.
Use flex layouts for responsive.
Separate Content from Presentation (Don’t use inline styles in your HTML. Always create a separate CSS file for your styles.)
Minify and Unify CSS
Minify, Unify and Move Down (if needed/don't break site) JavaScript
Use Heading Elements Wisely, use only one “h1” tag on one page which would be your page title and other heading tags for subheading.
Use the Right HTML Element at the Right Place
Don't repeat css for general styles, define general calss for general styles.
Make sure use of CSS3/SCSS in projects.
Class name should be meaningful.
One ID can be used once on any page, one can not use an ID multiple times on a single page.
Don’t Use Divs for Everything
Use an Unordered List (<ul>) for Navigation
Close Your Tags properly
Use proper Alt Attributes with Images
Use Title Attributes with Links (When Needed)
Use Fieldset and Labels in Web Forms
Use of attribute in label tags in web forms.
Use Modular IE Fixes (You can use conditional comments to target Internet Explorer if you are having issues with your web pages.)
Validate Your Code
Write Consistently Formatted/indented Code
Avoid Excessive Comments











CodeIgniter
General CodeIgniter Coding Standards​
CodeIgniter prefers using its own FileNaming, Constants, Class and Method Naming conventions. It is ALWAYS preferred to use that.

Class files must be named in a Ucfirst-like manner, while any other file name (configurations, views, generic scripts, etc.) should be in all lowercase.
Class names should always start with an uppercase letter. Multiple words should be separated with an underscore, and not CamelCased.
Class methods should be entirely lowercased and named to clearly indicate their function, preferably including a verb. Try to avoid overly long and verbose names. Multiple words should be separated with an underscore.
The guidelines for variable naming are very similar to those used for class methods. Variables should contain only lowercase letters, use underscore separators, and be reasonably named to indicate their purpose and contents. Very short, non-word variables should only be used as iterators in for() loops.
Use single line comments within code, leaving a blank line between large comment blocks and code.
Constants follow the same guidelines as do variables, except constants should always be fully uppercase. Always use CodeIgniter constants when appropriate, i.e. SLASH, LD, RD, PATH_CACHE, etc.
TRUE, FALSE, and NULL keywords should always be fully uppercase.
Use of the || “or” comparison operator is discouraged, as its clarity on some output devices is low (looking like the number 11, for instance). && is preferred over AND but either are acceptable, and a space should always precede and follow !
Some PHP functions return FALSE on failure, but may also have a valid return value of “” or 0, which would evaluate to FALSE in loose comparisons. Be explicit by comparing the variable type when using these return values in conditionals to ensure the return value is indeed what you expect, and not a value that has an equivalent loose-type evaluation.Use the same stringency in returning and checking your own variables. Use === and !== as necessary.
Do not leave debugging code in your submissions, even when commented out. Things such as var_dump(), print_r(), die()/exit() should not be included in your code unless it serves a specific purpose other than debugging.
No whitespace can precede the opening PHP tag or follow the closing PHP tag. Output is buffered, so whitespace in your files can cause output to begin before CodeIgniter outputs its content, leading to errors and an inability for CodeIgniter to send proper headers.
CodeIgniter recommends PHP 5.6 or newer to be used, but it should be compatible with PHP 5.3.7. Your code must either be compatible with this requirement, provide a suitable fallback, or be an optional feature that dies quietly without affecting a user’s application.Additionally, do not use PHP functions that require non-default libraries to be installed unless your code contains an alternative method when the function is not available.
Use separate files for each class, unless the classes are closely related. An example of a CodeIgniter file that contains multiple classes is the Xmlrpc library file.
Use tabs for whitespace in your code, not spaces. 
Files must be saved with Unix line breaks. This is more of an issue for developers who work in Windows, but in any case ensure that your text editor is setup to save files with Unix line breaks.
Use Allman style indenting. With the exception of Class declarations, braces are always placed on a line by themselves, and indented at the same level as the control statement that “owns” them.
In general, parenthesis and brackets should not use any additional spaces. The exception is that a space should always follow PHP control structures that accept arguments with parenthesis (declare, do-while, elseif, for, foreach, if, switch, while), to help distinguish them from functions and increase readability.
CodeIgniter libraries should take advantage of corresponding language files whenever possible.
Methods and variables that are only accessed internally, such as utility and helper functions that your public methods use for code abstraction, should be prefixed with an underscore.
Always use full PHP opening tags, in case a server does not have short_open_tag enabled.
Never combine statements on one line.
Always use single quoted strings unless you need variables parsed, and in cases where you do need variables parsed, use braces to prevent greedy token parsing. You may also use double-quoted strings if the string contains single quotes, so you do not have to use escape characters.
Whenever appropriate, provide function argument defaults, which helps prevent PHP errors with mistaken calls and provides common fallback values which can save a few lines of code.









Employees Dress Code Policy
Policy Purpose:​
Genetech Solutions Dress Code Policy outlines how we expect our employees to dress at work.

Employees should note that their appearance matters when representing our company in front of clients and Visitors. Genetech Solutions staff members/employees are expected to present a professional and businesslike image to clients and visitors. An employee’s appearance can create a positive or negative impression that reflects on our company image.

 

Monday to Thursday - Formal/Dress Shirts:​
Employees are expected to wear Formal Business Attire i.e. collar shirt, button down, full or short sleeves and properly in shirt.
For the comfort of Employees, Genetech Solutions allowed its staff members to wear jeans with Dress Shirts/Formal Shirts.
Business Casual dressing is not allowed during work hours that include T-Shirts, casual shirts (out shirts) and round neck shirts.

We may change our dress code in special cases/events but only allowed if management broadcasts prior notice for casual dressing day.

 

Friday - Casual Dressing Days:​
Employees can wear T-Shirts, round neck shirts, casual shirts (out shirts), Kurta
For Fridays, Pakistani attires are allowed.

PS: If Employee has business meeting with client on casual dressing day, employee has to wear Formal business attire on that day.

 

Allowed Shoes/Footwear:​
Proper formal shoes i.e. cap toe shoes, lace up cap toe shoes.
Loafers and sandals allowed only on casual days or with Pakistani attires.

PS: Slippers are not allowed even on casual days or with Pakistani attire.

















Code Of Conduct
Staff Code of Conduct
Genetech expects all interns and Staff Members (here forth referred to as 'Staff Members') to comply with and conform to the rules listed in this ‘Staff Code of Conduct’ document at all times. If these rules are disregarded, violated or staff members behaves unprofessionally, Genetech may discipline them. Disciplinary action can consist of but is not limited to oral, written warning or dismissal.

Rules
Staff Members should comply with the terms of their employment.
Staff Members should carry out all instructions required to satisfy the functions of their employment.
Staff Members are responsible to carry out and comply with the Office policies and procedures and legislation.
Staff Members are required to undertake their duties in a professional, responsible, conscientious and ethical manner and to act in the best interests of Genetech. They are expected to act honestly in all of their duties when dealing with clients, suppliers, contractors and fellow Staff Members.
Staff Members are expected to be punctual and regular in their attendance. All absence from work, except for reasons of sickness and genuine emergencies, should be authorized in advance.
Genetech assets – Example: Hardware, Software, People Time, Stock Images, Customer Projects, Documentation, Presentations, Graphics and Images, Design, Content, Hosting Space, Domain name etc. – can only be used strictly for Genetech business. Unless permission has been granted by the Management, Office resources are not to be used for private purposes. Removal of Genetech property and assets from the premises without permission is not permitted.
There should be legal and authorized use of Genetech equipment, time and assets. Staff Members must not deliberately misuse Office equipment, assets, or the services of other personnel. Examples of misuse include:
copying computer software programs regardless of whether or not the programs are protected by copyright.
use of the Office letterhead paper or postage when corresponding on personal or other matters not directly related to Genetech, including unauthorized use of the Office logo.
Staff Members have an obligation to ensure that professional information is secured against loss, misuse or unauthorized access, modification or disclosure. Staff Members have a duty to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and security of official information for which they are responsible. In Addition, Representing work done at Genetech by you or any other past or present Staff Member as your own work is prohibited.
Staff Members need to be aware of their record keeping responsibilities and are reminded that there is a legal requirement to adhere to proper records management practices and procedures. Staff Members must not damage, dispose of, or in any other manner, interfere with official documents or files. The destruction of records may only take place in accordance with a disposal and retention schedule, which has been approved by the CEO.
Staff Members must not access information which they are not authorized to access or use, and must not allow any other person access for any reason. Staff Members must take all reasonable precautions, including password maintenance and file protection measures to prevent unauthorized access and have an obligation to maintain the security and confidentiality of the information systems over which they have responsibility or control and that are owned or used by agreement.
Making of unreasonably long or numerous private telephone calls, emails, chatting (MSN, Yahoo, Skype, etc.) and texting (SMS) is not permitted.
Threatening, aggressive or violent behavior or language is not permitted and may lead to dismissal – this applies both during working hours and outside of the work environment.
Discriminatory behavior, language, or non-verbal language is not permitted.
Harassment of individuals, whether sexual or otherwise, is not permitted.
Staff Members will not bring sexually explicit material (pornographic) into the workplace or engage in inappropriate sexually explicit conversation within the workplace.
Racial and religious vilification is a form of harassment and discrimination and is unacceptable conduct at Genetech. All reported incidents will be investigated.
Shouting and verbal intimidation is also seen as unacceptable and will constitute gross misconduct.
Bullying of individuals, in any form, is not permitted.
Behavior or actions that would in any way jeopardize the safety or well-being of other staff members is not permitted.
Behavior or action that may be deemed unethical or disrespectful to the fellow staff or management is not permitted.
Staff Members must not behave in a way that brings or may bring Genetech into disrepute.
Staff Members will treat guests and clients with respect at all times. Staff Members are expected to make themselves aware of any workplace and/or program-specific policies/guidelines in this area. Meeting the Client or any relative (i.e. person outside the Organization) is strictly prohibited in Work Place. Proper Meeting Room are furnished for this purpose.
Staff Members will dress in a manner suitable for the workplace.
Smoking is not permitted inside the office space, labs, at Work Stations, Meeting rooms, & Board Rooms. Smoking is allowed only in designated smoking areas on the office premise.
Staff Members should not be under the influence of alcohol or other substances while they are at work or somewhere else. Possession, use or trafficking in illegal drugs on the premises is not permitted. Any such activity will be immediately referred to the police and Genetech may take disciplinary action, which may include termination of employment.
No staff member will engage in a relationship (social, financial) with a client or ex-client of Genetech for at least two years after their contract with Genetech has ended.
If a Staff Member becomes aware of the potential for conflict of interest then he/she must notify his/her manager of the potential or actual conflict of interest. Genetech expects Staff Members to:
Declare any likely conflict of interest to supervisors; and
Avoid any detrimental outcome as a result of a conflict of interest.
if a conflict of interest arises where a Staff Member:
Engages or is likely to engage in activities or advances, or
Is likely to advance personal or other interests at the expense of Genetech interests or the interests of other Staff Members, Genetech may then intervene.
Staff Members must ensure that there is no conflict or incompatibility between their personal interests, whether pecuniary (e.g. money) or non-pecuniary and the impartial fulfillment of their duties. Where an Staff Member has an impartiality, financial or proximity interest in any matter regarding provisions outlined within this Code, or which might be perceived as being in conflict with the interest of another person who may be affected then the Staff Member must immediately disclose this to the Department Head / HRD or at the meeting if prior disclosure is not possible.
Staff Members should avoid any financial involvement or undertaking that could directly or indirectly compromise or undermine the performance of their duties or Genetech objectives or activities.
Staff Members must continually strive to improve their professional competence, maintain their knowledge and encourage the development of their skills and competence of associates.
Staff Members will not invite or bring personal guests on Genetech premise without prior approval.
The following are examples of the kind of behavior which can constitute gross misconduct and will lead to immediate dismissal:

Physical violence towards anybody: this applies to your role as a staff member but also outside of the work environment
Behavior that seriously jeopardizes health or safety
Misuse of the trust that exists between staff members and anyone for whom Genetech is responsible
Incapacity for work due to being under the influence of illegal drugs or alcohol
Gross insubordination
Deliberate damage to Genetech property
Serious infringement of the rules of Genetech
Breaches of the Code
Genetech is committed to the standards set out in the Employee Code of Conduct. Where a breach of the Code has been identified by Genetech a response to the breach may result in:

counseling
disciplinary action
termination of employment
suspension; or
Laying of criminal charges or civil action.
I agree to abide by and follow all rules and items listed in Genetech's Code Of Conduct document. I understand that disregarding or violating any of these rules may be grounds for dismissal.